src/content/docs/configuration/git-providers.mdx, before:

---
title: Git Providers
description: Connect Daytona with GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, and other Git Providers.
sidebar:
  label: Git Providers
---

Git Providers — sometimes known as software forges or Source Code Managers (SCMs) — provide a set of tools to host and collaborate on codebases using Git.

Daytona allows you to integrate your preferred Git Provider, enhancing your development workflow. This integration enables you to access and manage your repositories directly within Daytona, simplifying Workspace creation from existing projects.

By adding a Git Provider, your credentials are securely embedded into your Workspaces. This allows for seamless Git operations without repeated authentication.

## Add a Git Provider

You can integrate Daytona with a Git Provider to manage version control operations and interact with your Git repositories.

Daytona supports a variety of Git Providers, including [GitHub](/#github), [GitLab](#gitlab), [Bitbucket](#bitbucket), and [Bitbucket Server](#bitbucket-server).

This integration supports and enables interacting with your codebase, cloning repositories, and pushing changes directly from Daytona.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to the Git Provider you want to integrate.
3. Click **`Authorize`** when prompted to authorize Daytona OAuth application.

## Remove a Git provider

Daytona allows you to remove Git Providers, helping you manage and delete those that are no longer required.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, remove the Git Provider by selecting the **`remove`** icon.

Once a Git Provider is removed, you will not be able to manage or deploy Workspaces without adding another Git Provider.

## GitHub

Connect Daytona with GitHub to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitHub repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitHub to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitHub for the first time, you will be redirected to GitHub's authorization page. Click **`Authorize daytonaio`** to authorize the OAuth application. 
:::

On the authorization page, you can choose to grant access to organizations you own or request access to organizations owned by others by clicking the respective `Grant` and `Request` options. If you prefer not to grant additional authorizations at this time, you can add them later.

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitHub as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitHub repositories.

### Organization Access

Add Daytona to your GitHub organization to enable access to organization repositories. This allows you to create Workspaces using repositories from your organization.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the **`Integration`** section of the sidebar, click **`Application`**.
3. On the top of the page, click the **`Authorized OAuth Apps`** tab.
4. In the list of applications, click the name of the OAuth app you have set up Daytona access for.
5. Next to the organization you'd like the OAuth app to access, click **`Request access`**.
6. After you review the information about requesting OAuth app access, click **`Request approval from owners`**. If you are an admin in this organization, you can approve it by yourself, otherwise, you'll need to contact your admin to approve the authorization request.

## GitHub Enterprise Server

Connect Daytona with GitHub Enterprise Server to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitHub Enterprise Server repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitHub Enterprise Server to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitHub Enterprise Server for the first time, you will be redirected to GitHub Enterprise Server's authorization page. Authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitHub Enterprise Server as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitHub Enterprise Server repositories.

## GitLab

Connect Daytona with GitLab to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitLab repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitLab to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitLab for the first time, you will be redirected to GitLab's user settings page. Click **`Authorize`** to authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitLab as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitLab repositories.

### Organization Access

Add Daytona to your GitLab organization to enable access to organization repositories. This allows you to create Workspaces using repositories from your organization.

In GitLab, organizations are referred to as *Groups*, where users manage members with shared repositories. When using Daytona, no additional steps are necessary to access *Groups* in GitLab. Once sign in to your Daytona dashboard via your GitLab account, you will have access to all associated *Groups*.

## GitLab Self-Managed

Connect Daytona with GitLab Self-Managed to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitLab Self-Managed repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitLab Self-Managed to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitLab Self-Managed for the first time, you will be redirected to GitLab Self-Managed's user settings page. Authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitLab Self-Managed as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitLab Self-Managed repositories.

## Bitbucket

Connect Daytona with GitHub to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitHub repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitHub to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via Bitbucket for the first time, you will be redirected to Bitbucket's application authorization page. Click `Grant Access` authorize the OAuth application.
:::

In case your Bitbucket account shares the same email address with other Identity Providers, you may encounter a prompt stating: *User with email "your-email" already exists. How do you want to continue?*. 

Click on `Add to existing account` to proceed. On the next page, select the account (e.g., GitHub or GitLab) you want to link to your Bitbucket account.

You can now sign in to Daytona using Bitbucket as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using Bitbucket repositories.

### Organization access

In Bitbucket, organizations are referred to as `Workspaces`, and members are managed through `Access Management` within the Workspace settings. When you sign in to your Bitbucket account and work on a repository, you are operating within a Workspace by default. After adding Bitbucket as an identity provider and completing the configuration as described above, your Daytona installation will have access to all your Bitbucket Workspaces.

## Bitbucket Server

Connect Daytona with Bitbucket Server to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your Bitbucket Server repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to Bitbucket Server to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via Bitbucket Server for the first time, you will be redirected to Bitbucket Server's Bitbucket Server's OAuth authorization page. Click **`Allow`** to authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using Bitbucket Server as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using Bitbucket Server repositories.

## Azure DevOps

Connect Daytona with Azure DevOps to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your Azure DevOps repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to Azure DevOps to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via Azure DevOps for the first time, you will be redirected to Azure DevOps's authorization page. Click Authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using Azure DevOps as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using Azure DevOps repositories.

Commit message:

docs: modify wording (add/remove) -> (connect/disconnect)
Signed-off-by: stefanicjuraj <jurajstefanic@outlook.com>

src/content/docs/configuration/git-providers.mdx, after:

---
title: Git Providers
description: Connect Daytona with GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, and other Git Providers.
sidebar:
  label: Git Providers
---

Git Providers — sometimes known as software forges or Source Code Managers (SCMs) — provide a set of tools to host and collaborate on codebases using Git.

Daytona allows you to integrate your preferred Git Provider, enhancing your development workflow. This integration enables you to access and manage your repositories directly within Daytona, simplifying Workspace creation from existing projects.

By connecting a Git Provider, your credentials are securely embedded into your Workspaces. This allows for seamless Git operations without repeated authentication.

## Connect a Git Provider

You can integrate Daytona with a Git Provider to manage version control operations and interact with your Git repositories.

Daytona supports a variety of Git Providers, including [GitHub](/#github), [GitLab](#gitlab), [Bitbucket](#bitbucket), and [Bitbucket Server](#bitbucket-server).

This integration supports and enables interacting with your codebase, cloning repositories, and pushing changes directly from Daytona.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to the Git Provider you want to integrate.
3. Click **`Authorize`** when prompted to authorize Daytona OAuth application.

## Disconnect a Git provider

Daytona allows you to disconnect Git Providers, helping you manage and delete those that are no longer required.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, disconnect the Git Provider by selecting the **`disconnect`** icon.

Once a Git Provider is disconnect, you will not be able to manage or deploy Workspaces without connecting another Git Provider.

## GitHub

Connect Daytona with GitHub to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitHub repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitHub to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitHub for the first time, you will be redirected to GitHub's authorization page. Click **`Authorize daytonaio`** to authorize the OAuth application. 
:::

On the authorization page, you can choose to grant access to organizations you own or request access to organizations owned by others by clicking the respective `Grant` and `Request` options. If you prefer not to grant additional authorizations at this time, you can connect them later.

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitHub as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitHub repositories.

### Organization Access

Connect Daytona to your GitHub organization to enable access to organization repositories. This allows you to create Workspaces using repositories from your organization.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the **`Integration`** section of the sidebar, click **`Application`**.
3. On the top of the page, click the **`Authorized OAuth Apps`** tab.
4. In the list of applications, click the name of the OAuth app you have set up Daytona access for.
5. Next to the organization you'd like the OAuth app to access, click **`Request access`**.
6. After you review the information about requesting OAuth app access, click **`Request approval from owners`**. If you are an admin in this organization, you can approve it by yourself, otherwise, you'll need to contact your admin to approve the authorization request.

## GitHub Enterprise Server

Connect Daytona with GitHub Enterprise Server to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitHub Enterprise Server repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitHub Enterprise Server to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitHub Enterprise Server for the first time, you will be redirected to GitHub Enterprise Server's authorization page. Authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitHub Enterprise Server as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitHub Enterprise Server repositories.

## GitLab

Connect Daytona with GitLab to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitLab repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitLab to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitLab for the first time, you will be redirected to GitLab's user settings page. Click **`Authorize`** to authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitLab as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitLab repositories.

### Organization Access

Connect Daytona to your GitLab organization to enable access to organization repositories. This allows you to create Workspaces using repositories from your organization.

In GitLab, organizations are referred to as *Groups*, where users manage members with shared repositories. When using Daytona, no additional steps are necessary to access *Groups* in GitLab. Once sign in to your Daytona dashboard via your GitLab account, you will have access to all associated *Groups*.

## GitLab Self-Managed

Connect Daytona with GitLab Self-Managed to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitLab Self-Managed repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitLab Self-Managed to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via GitLab Self-Managed for the first time, you will be redirected to GitLab Self-Managed's user settings page. Authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using GitLab Self-Managed as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using GitLab Self-Managed repositories.

## Bitbucket

Connect Daytona with GitHub to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your GitHub repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to GitHub to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via Bitbucket for the first time, you will be redirected to Bitbucket's application authorization page. Click `Grant Access` authorize the OAuth application.
:::

In case your Bitbucket account shares the same email address with other Identity Providers, you may encounter a prompt stating: *User with email "your-email" already exists. How do you want to continue?*. 

Click on `Add to existing account` to proceed. On the next page, select the account (e.g., GitHub or GitLab) you want to link to your Bitbucket account.

You can now sign in to Daytona using Bitbucket as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using Bitbucket repositories.

### Organization access

In Bitbucket, organizations are referred to as `Workspaces`, and members are managed through `Access Management` within the Workspace settings. When you sign in to your Bitbucket account and work on a repository, you are operating within a Workspace by default. After connecting Bitbucket as an identity provider and completing the configuration as described above, your Daytona installation will have access to all your Bitbucket Workspaces.

## Bitbucket Server

Connect Daytona with Bitbucket Server to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your Bitbucket Server repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to Bitbucket Server to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via Bitbucket Server for the first time, you will be redirected to Bitbucket Server's Bitbucket Server's OAuth authorization page. Click **`Allow`** to authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using Bitbucket Server as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using Bitbucket Server repositories.

## Azure DevOps

Connect Daytona with Azure DevOps to access your repositories and create Workspaces using your Azure DevOps repositories.

1. Navigate to your profile account and select **`Settings`**.
2. In the Identity Providers section, select **`Connect`** next to Azure DevOps to integrate with Daytona.

:::note
When signing in via Azure DevOps for the first time, you will be redirected to Azure DevOps's authorization page. Click Authorize the OAuth application.
:::

You can now sign in to Daytona using Azure DevOps as an Identity Provider and create Workspaces using Azure DevOps repositories.
