src/content/docs/usage/workspaces.md, before:

---
title: Workspaces
description: Add a brief description of the Workspaces Usage page here
sidebar:
  label: Workspaces
---

A workspace is a self-contained development environment, pre-configured with the project’s source code, required dependencies, necessary tools, and extensions to optimize workflow for your development team.

Daytona workspaces simplify the setup and configuration of development environments, integrate various tools, automate repetitive tasks, and ensure a consistent experience across different teams and projects. By following established practices and automation, Development Environment Management ensures that all developers have access to a consistent, secure, and standardized environment, ultimately enhancing productivity and streamlining the software development process.

## Create a Workspace

Creating your own Workspace in Daytona is a straightforward process that ensures you have a dedicated environment for your projects.

Creating a Workspace allows you to set up a new environment either by selecting a repository from a configured Git provider like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, or by manually entering a Git repository URL.

1. Click `Create +` to create a Workspace.

2. Select the `Git repository` you want to use or enter a custom repository URL. Daytona provides two options for linking your repository:

   - **Selecting from a List of Repositories**

     If you select a Git repository (e.g., GitHub), you will be presented with a list of your repositories from which you can select the desired repository.

   - **Entering a Custom Repository URL**

     Alternatively, you can enter a custom repository URL manually to find the repository is not listed under your Git Provider account or is from an external source.

If the selected Git repository includes a `devcontainer.json` configuration file, you will be prompted to select the `configuration file` for your Workspace.

3. Select the default [**`IDE`**](/usage/ide) to use for your Workspace.

4. Select the [**`Workspace class`**](#workspace-classes) to allocate resources for your Workspace.

5. Click `Continue` to proceed with the Workspace creation process.

  ```text
    ⠋ Warming up...
  ```

  Wait while Daytona sets up your Workspace. It handles all the initialization and configuration of your environment.

<!-- #### Web Browser Creation

1. **Starting Creation** 

  In your Browser type in your GitHub or GitLab repository prefix with your domain. For example,

```bash
{{domain-name}}/#{{link-to-github-repo}}
``` -->

## Open a Workspace

Daytona allows you to open an existing Workspace in your [IDE](/usage/ide). This enables you to quickly access and work on your projects in your preferred development environment. With Daytona, you can effortlessly switch between different Workspaces and maintain an efficient workflow.

1. In the Daytona dashboard, click the IDE button of the Workspace you want to open. This will automatically launch your Workspace in the selected IDE.

## Workspace SSH Connection

Daytona allows secure remote access to your Workspace via SSH. You can choose to connect using either a Public Key or an Access Token.

### Public Key

Daytona offers a secure and consistent method for connecting to your Workspace using a Public Key for establishing an SSH connection to your Workspace.

1. In the dashboard, navigate to your account icon in the top-right corner.
2. Select **`SSH Keys`** from the account dropdown menu.
3. Click **`New +`** to add an SSH Key.
4. Enter a descriptive name for your SSH Key in the **Name** field, paste your public SSH Key into the **Key** field, and optionally set an expiration date to specify when the key should become invalid.
5. Click **`Continue`** to add your SSH Key.

After successfully adding your SSH Key, you will be ready to establish an SSH connection to your Workspace using a Public Key.

1. In the Workspaces dashboard, click the top-right corner of the Workspace to expand its details.
2. Navigate to the **Connect via SSH** section of the expanded Workspace details in the bottom-right corner.
3. Select <u>**`Public Key`**</u> as your method of connecting via SSH to your Workspace.
4. Copy the command generated by Daytona.
5. Open your terminal application and paste the command to establish an SSH connection to your Workspace.

Example of a generated SSH command:

```text
ssh daytonaio-template-abcd1234de@daytonaio-template-abcd1234de.ssh.eu.demo.daytona.app -p 30000 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=off
```

### Access Token

The Workspace Access Token is automatically generated when you create a Workspace. This access token is included in the generated SSH command, providing secure access to your Workspace. The access token changes each time the Workspace restarts, ensuring that your access remains secure.

1. Copy the command generated by Daytona.
2. Open your terminal application and paste the command to establish an SSH connection to your Workspace.

Example of a generated SSH command:

```text
ssh daytonaio-template-abcd1234de_abcde12345fghij6789klmnopr1234567@daytonaio-template-abcd1234de.ssh.eu.demo.daytona.app -p 30000 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=off
```

:::caution
Anyone with the following command will be able to connect to this Workspace. The command includes a generated access token that changes each time the Workspace restarts.
:::

## Pin a Workspace

Daytona allows you to pin a Workspace, ensuring it is not deleted, even if it is inactive.

If a retention period is specified by the administrator, Workspaces that have remained inactive longer than the retention period since they were last stopped, will be automatically deleted. Pinned Workspaces will never be automatically deleted.

Administrators can set limits on the number of Workspaces that each user can pin.

1. Locate the Workspace you want to pin.
2. Click the pin icon next to your Workspace name to pin a Workspace.

## Manage a Workspace

Daytona allows you to access and manage your Workspace, providing a detailed overview of the Workspace configuration.  

1. Click the top-right corner of the Workspace to expand the details.

Once expanded, you will be presented with the following options and information:

- **Workspace ID**

  A unique identifier for your Workspace.

  Example: `daytonaio-templates-base-abc123def`

- **Workspace Class**

  Describes the resource allocation and configuration of your Workspace. Read more about managing [Workspace classes](#workspace-class).

- **Created At**

  The timestamp showing when the Workspace was initially created.

  Example: `01/08/2024, 02:30:00`

- **Updated At**

  The timestamp showing the last time the Workspace settings or configuration was modified.

  Example: `05/08/2024, 03:45:00`

- **`Start`**

  Initiates the Workspace, making it active and ready for use.

- **`Delete`**

  Permanently removes the Workspace and all associated data.

- **`Shared`**

  Manages the sharing settings of the Workspace, allowing you to collaborate with others.

- **Launch remote environment**

  Starts the Workspace in a remote environment, allowing you to access it with the selected [IDE](/usage/ide).

- **Connect via SSH**

  Daytona allows secure remote access to your Workspace via SSH. You can connect using either a Public Key or an Access Token. Once selected, you will be provided with a command to SSH into your Workspace.

## Delete a Workspace

Daytona allows you to delete one or more Workspaces, helping you manage your development environments by removing those that are no longer needed.

1. Expand the selected Workspace to view its configuration and details.
2. Click the **`Delete`** button to delete your Workspace. For security purposes, deleting a Workspace requires you to retype the Workspace name to confirm the action.

## Workspace Classes

Workspace classes are configurations defined by the administrator that allocate resources to a Workspace. These configurations allow for the creation of one or more Workspace classes with varying capacities for CPU, GPU, RAM, and disk storage.

Workspace classes simplify the resource allocation process, enabling users to select the predefined configurations that best meet their requirements, without the need to manually specify resource details.

The creation and selection of an appropriate Workspace class depend on the intensity and nature of the tasks to be performed within a Workspace. The resources available for each Workspace class are limited by the hardware node availability within the cluster.

Commit message:

docs: add workspace samples entry (#120)
* docs: add workspace samples entry

Signed-off-by: stefanicjuraj <jurajstefanic@outlook.com>

* docs: modify create from sample description

Signed-off-by: stefanicjuraj <jurajstefanic@outlook.com>

* docs: modify paragraph wording

Signed-off-by: stefanicjuraj <jurajstefanic@outlook.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: stefanicjuraj <jurajstefanic@outlook.com>

src/content/docs/usage/workspaces.md, after:

---
title: Workspaces
description: Add a brief description of the Workspaces Usage page here
sidebar:
  label: Workspaces
---

A workspace is a self-contained development environment, pre-configured with the project’s source code, required dependencies, necessary tools, and extensions to optimize workflow for your development team.

Daytona workspaces simplify the setup and configuration of development environments, integrate various tools, automate repetitive tasks, and ensure a consistent experience across different teams and projects. By following established practices and automation, Development Environment Management ensures that all developers have access to a consistent, secure, and standardized environment, ultimately enhancing productivity and streamlining the software development process.

## Create a Workspace

Creating your own Workspace in Daytona is a straightforward process that ensures you have a dedicated environment for your projects.

Creating a Workspace allows you to set up a new environment either by selecting a repository from a configured Git provider like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, or by manually entering a Git repository URL.

1. Click `Create +` to create a Workspace.

2. Link the `Git repository` to your Daytona Workspace by selecting one of the three provided options:

   - **Selecting from a List of Repositories**

     If you select a Git repository (e.g., GitHub), you will be presented with a list of your repositories from which you can select the desired repository.

   - **Entering a Custom Repository URL**

     Alternatively, you can enter a custom repository URL manually to find the repository is not listed under your Git Provider account or is from an external source.

   - **Creating from Sample**

     If you do not have a repository ready, you can choose to create a Workspace from a sample project provided by Daytona. This option allows you to set up a new development environment using quick-start sample repositories.

3. Select the dev container `configuration file` for your Workspace.

If the selected Git repository includes a `devcontainer.json` configuration file, you will be prompted to select the `configuration file` for your Workspace.

4. Select the default [**`IDE`**](/usage/ide) to use for your Workspace.

5. Select the [**`Workspace class`**](#workspace-classes) to allocate resources for your Workspace.

6. Click `Continue` to proceed with the Workspace creation process.

  ```text
    ⠋ Warming up...
  ```

  Wait while Daytona sets up your Workspace. It handles all the initialization and configuration of your environment.

<!-- #### Web Browser Creation

1. **Starting Creation** 

  In your Browser type in your GitHub or GitLab repository prefix with your domain. For example,

```bash
{{domain-name}}/#{{link-to-github-repo}}
``` -->

## Open a Workspace

Daytona allows you to open an existing Workspace in your [IDE](/usage/ide). This enables you to quickly access and work on your projects in your preferred development environment. With Daytona, you can effortlessly switch between different Workspaces and maintain an efficient workflow.

1. In the Daytona dashboard, click the IDE button of the Workspace you want to open. This will automatically launch your Workspace in the selected IDE.

## Workspace SSH Connection

Daytona allows secure remote access to your Workspace via SSH. You can choose to connect using either a Public Key or an Access Token.

### Public Key

Daytona offers a secure and consistent method for connecting to your Workspace using a Public Key for establishing an SSH connection to your Workspace.

1. In the dashboard, navigate to your account icon in the top-right corner.
2. Select **`SSH Keys`** from the account dropdown menu.
3. Click **`New +`** to add an SSH Key.
4. Enter a descriptive name for your SSH Key in the **Name** field, paste your public SSH Key into the **Key** field, and optionally set an expiration date to specify when the key should become invalid.
5. Click **`Continue`** to add your SSH Key.

After successfully adding your SSH Key, you will be ready to establish an SSH connection to your Workspace using a Public Key.

1. In the Workspaces dashboard, click the top-right corner of the Workspace to expand its details.
2. Navigate to the **Connect via SSH** section of the expanded Workspace details in the bottom-right corner.
3. Select <u>**`Public Key`**</u> as your method of connecting via SSH to your Workspace.
4. Copy the command generated by Daytona.
5. Open your terminal application and paste the command to establish an SSH connection to your Workspace.

Example of a generated SSH command:

```text
ssh daytonaio-template-abcd1234de@daytonaio-template-abcd1234de.ssh.eu.demo.daytona.app -p 30000 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=off
```

### Access Token

The Workspace Access Token is automatically generated when you create a Workspace. This access token is included in the generated SSH command, providing secure access to your Workspace. The access token changes each time the Workspace restarts, ensuring that your access remains secure.

1. Copy the command generated by Daytona.
2. Open your terminal application and paste the command to establish an SSH connection to your Workspace.

Example of a generated SSH command:

```text
ssh daytonaio-template-abcd1234de_abcde12345fghij6789klmnopr1234567@daytonaio-template-abcd1234de.ssh.eu.demo.daytona.app -p 30000 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=off
```

:::caution
Anyone with the following command will be able to connect to this Workspace. The command includes a generated access token that changes each time the Workspace restarts.
:::

## Pin a Workspace

Daytona allows you to pin a Workspace, ensuring it is not deleted, even if it is inactive.

If a retention period is specified by the administrator, Workspaces that have remained inactive longer than the retention period since they were last stopped, will be automatically deleted. Pinned Workspaces will never be automatically deleted.

Administrators can set limits on the number of Workspaces that each user can pin.

1. Locate the Workspace you want to pin.
2. Click the pin icon next to your Workspace name to pin a Workspace.

## Manage a Workspace

Daytona allows you to access and manage your Workspace, providing a detailed overview of the Workspace configuration.  

1. Click the top-right corner of the Workspace to expand the details.

Once expanded, you will be presented with the following options and information:

- **Workspace ID**

  A unique identifier for your Workspace.

  Example: `daytonaio-templates-base-abc123def`

- **Workspace Class**

  Describes the resource allocation and configuration of your Workspace. Read more about managing [Workspace classes](#workspace-class).

- **Created At**

  The timestamp showing when the Workspace was initially created.

  Example: `01/08/2024, 02:30:00`

- **Updated At**

  The timestamp showing the last time the Workspace settings or configuration was modified.

  Example: `05/08/2024, 03:45:00`

- **`Start`**

  Initiates the Workspace, making it active and ready for use.

- **`Delete`**

  Permanently removes the Workspace and all associated data.

- **`Shared`**

  Manages the sharing settings of the Workspace, allowing you to collaborate with others.

- **Launch remote environment**

  Starts the Workspace in a remote environment, allowing you to access it with the selected [IDE](/usage/ide).

- **Connect via SSH**

  Daytona allows secure remote access to your Workspace via SSH. You can connect using either a Public Key or an Access Token. Once selected, you will be provided with a command to SSH into your Workspace.

## Delete a Workspace

Daytona allows you to delete one or more Workspaces, helping you manage your development environments by removing those that are no longer needed.

1. Expand the selected Workspace to view its configuration and details.
2. Click the **`Delete`** button to delete your Workspace. For security purposes, deleting a Workspace requires you to retype the Workspace name to confirm the action.

## Workspace Classes

Workspace classes are configurations defined by the administrator that allocate resources to a Workspace. These configurations allow for the creation of one or more Workspace classes with varying capacities for CPU, GPU, RAM, and disk storage.

Workspace classes simplify the resource allocation process, enabling users to select the predefined configurations that best meet their requirements, without the need to manually specify resource details.

The creation and selection of an appropriate Workspace class depend on the intensity and nature of the tasks to be performed within a Workspace. The resources available for each Workspace class are limited by the hardware node availability within the cluster.
