src/content/docs/tools/api.mdx, before:

---
title: API Tools and Resources
description: Add a brief description of the API Tools and Resources page here
sidebar:
  label: API
---
import ApiContent from "../../../components/content/ApiContent.astro"
import ApiVersion from "../../../components/cards/ApiVersionCard.astro"

**Current API version: <ApiVersion/>**

The Daytona API is a REST-styled API based on the OpenAPI 3.0.1 specification  gives you full control over your Daytona deployment. It allows developers to interact with your own Daytona deployment, deploy new clusters, manage existing clusters, retrieve infromation about deployemnt and configurations, manage secrets and perform other operations using HTTP requests programmatically. 

The API uses standard HTTP response codes and verbs, and follows `OAuth2`  authentication protocols. Any programming languages or framework that can make HTTP requests can use the API to interact with your Daytona deployment.


## API Endpoint

Every Daytona deployment has its own API endpoint and documentations. 

Example as follow:

<dl>
<dt>Daytona dashboard URL</dt>
<dd>`https://daytona.domain.com` your deployment URL.</dd>
<dt>API Endpoint</dt>
<dd>`https://api.daytona.domain.com`</dd>
<dt>API Documentation</dt>
<dd>`https://api.daytona.domain.com/v3/docs`</dd>
</dl>

## API Basics

Our API is exposed as an HTTP/1 adn HTTP/2 service over SSL. All endpoints live under your specific endpoint and generally follow the REST architecture. 

### Server Specs 

#### HTTP and TLS 

The API supports HTTP version 1, 1.1, and 2, although HTTP/2 is preferred. 

TLS version 1.3 is supported with resumption. 

For more information on TLS support, paste your endpoint in [SSL Labs report](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html).

#### Content Type 

Al requests must be encoded as JSON with the `Content-Type: application/json` header. If not otherwise specified (some are `*/*`), responses from your Daytona API, including errors, are encoded as JSON as well. 



## Authentication
Daytona API is token based, follows the OAuth2 authentication protocol.

### Creating an Access Token 
Access Tokens can be created and managed from inside [TBC].

### Expiration 
Setting an expiration date on an Access Token is **highly recommended** and is considered one of the standard security practices that helps keep your information secure. 

You can select from a range of expiration dates, [TBC]. You can view the expiration date of an Access Token by clicking on the token in the [TBC] page.

### Revoking an Access Token
You can revoke an Access Token at any time from the [TBC] page. Once revoked, the token is no longer valid and cannot be used to make API calls.

### Regenerating an Access Token

You can regenerate an Access Token at any time from the [TBC] page. Once regenerated, the old token is no longer valid and cannot be used to make API calls.

### Using an Access Token

### Failed Authentication 
If authentication is unsuccessful for a request, the **`401`** or **`403`** response code is returned.

{/*No rate limits and error handling in API/swagger?*/}

## Versioning
All endpoints and examples are designated with a specific version. Versions do not vary per endpoint and are global [TBC]. 

To ensure the security and correctness of your application, make sure to **only read the keys from the response** that your application expects. Don't proxy entire responses to third-parties without validation. 

{/*Any changelog to notify user if API endpoint/responses changes?*/}

Endpoint versions follow the base URL and come before the endpoint. For example:

```json 
https://api.daytona.domain.com/v3/clusters
```

## Types 
The following is a list of the types of data used within Daytona API: 

| Name | Description | Example |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| ID | A unique identifier for an object. See team ID or account ID on Daytona dashboard. | `123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000` |
| `string` | A sequence of characters used to represent text. | `value` |
| `number` | A whole number without decimal. | `1` |
| `object` | A data structure with a list of values assigned to a unique key. | `{ "key": "value" }` |
| `array` | A list of values. | `[ "value1", "value2" ]` |
| `boolean` | A value that is either `true` or `false`. | `true` |
| `enum` | A value that is one of a predefined set of values. | [ 'value1', 'value2'] |
| Timestamp | A value that represents a point in time. | `2021-01-01T00:00:00Z` |


{/* {/* | `null` | A value that is `null`. | `null` |/*} */}


## API endpoints
Daytona's API endpoints are separated into groups based on the type of action they perform. Following is a list of the groups and their explained actions:

| Group | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Clusters](#cluster) | Cluster related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing clusters. |
| [User](#user) | User related actions, such as login, logout, and user profile. |
| [Workspace](#workspace) | Workspace related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing workspaces. |
| [WorkspaceInstance](#workspace-instance) | Secrets related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing secrets. |
| [Team](#team) | Team related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing teams. |
| [Plan](#plan) | Plan related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing plans. |
| [WorkspaceUsage](#workspace-usage) | Workspace usage related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing workspace usage. |
| [WorkspaceSSH](#workspace-ssh) | Workspace SSH related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing workspace SSH. |
| [Superviser](#superviser) | Superviser related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing supervisers. |

### API request example 

## API Endpoints reference

#### Cluster

<ApiContent routeGroup="cluster"/>


#### User
<ApiContent routeGroup="user"/>

#### Workspace
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace"/>

#### Workspace Instance
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace-instance"/>
#### Team
<ApiContent routeGroup="team"/>

#### Plan
<ApiContent routeGroup="plan"/>

#### Workspace Usage
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace-usage"/>

### Workspace SSH
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace-ssh"/>

### Superviser

<ApiContent routeGroup="superviser"/>

## Schema Reference

Commit message:

add schema into docs, authentication methods and group routes description

src/content/docs/tools/api.mdx, after:

---
title: API Tools and Resources
description: Add a brief description of the API Tools and Resources page here
sidebar:
  label: API
---
import ApiContent from "../../../components/content/ApiContent.astro"
import ApiVersion from "../../../components/cards/ApiVersionCard.astro"
import SchemaCard from "../../../components/cards/SchemaCard.astro"

**Current API version: <ApiVersion/>**

The Daytona API is a REST-styled API based on the OpenAPI 3.0.1 specification  gives you full control over your Daytona deployment. It allows developers to interact with your own Daytona deployment, deploy new clusters, manage existing clusters, retrieve infromation about deployemnt and configurations, manage secrets and perform other operations using HTTP requests programmatically. 

The API uses standard HTTP response codes and verbs, and follows `OAuth2`  authentication protocols. Any programming languages or framework that can make HTTP requests can use the API to interact with your Daytona deployment.


## API Endpoint

Every Daytona deployment has its own API endpoint and documentations. 

Example as follow:

<dl>
<dt>Daytona dashboard URL</dt>
<dd>`https://daytona.domain.com` your deployment URL.</dd>
<dt>API Endpoint</dt>
<dd>`https://api.daytona.domain.com`</dd>
<dt>API Documentation</dt>
<dd>`https://api.daytona.domain.com/v3/docs`</dd>
</dl>

## API Basics

Our API is exposed as an HTTP/1 adn HTTP/2 service over SSL. All endpoints live under your specific endpoint and generally follow the REST architecture. 

### Server Specs 

#### HTTP and TLS 

The API supports HTTP version 1, 1.1, and 2, although HTTP/2 is preferred. 

TLS version 1.3 is supported with resumption. 

For more information on TLS support, paste your endpoint in [SSL Labs report](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html).

#### Content Type 

Al requests must be encoded as JSON with the `Content-Type: application/json` header. If not otherwise specified (some are `*/*`), responses from your Daytona API, including errors, are encoded as JSON as well. 



## Authentication
Unless specify differently, most of the Daytona API endpoints are token based, follows the OAuth2 authentication protocol (`client_secret`). Some of the endpoints requires a `workspaceToken` for authentication. We will walk through how you can create and authenticate via [`client_secret`](#finding-client-secret) and [`workspaceToken`](#creating-workspaceToken) in the following sections.

:::note 
When `workspaceToken` is required, it overwrites the `client_secret` and you will only need `workspaceToken` to authenticate. 
:::

### Finding Client Secret
Access Tokens can be created and managed from inside [TBC].

### Creating workspaceToken
To retrieve `workspaceToken`, you can [TBC].

### Expiration 
Setting an expiration date on an Access Token is **highly recommended** and is considered one of the standard security practices that helps keep your information secure. 

You can select from a range of expiration dates, [TBC]. You can view the expiration date of an Access Token by clicking on the token in the [TBC] page.

### Revoking an Access Token
You can revoke an Access Token at any time from the [TBC] page. Once revoked, the token is no longer valid and cannot be used to make API calls.

### Regenerating an Access Token

You can regenerate an Access Token at any time from the [TBC] page. Once regenerated, the old token is no longer valid and cannot be used to make API calls.

### Using an Access Token

### Failed Authentication 
If authentication is unsuccessful for a request, the **`401`** or **`403`** response code is returned.

{/*No rate limits and error handling in API/swagger?*/}

## Versioning
All endpoints and examples are designated with a specific version. Versions do not vary per endpoint and are global [TBC]. 

To ensure the security and correctness of your application, make sure to **only read the keys from the response** that your application expects. Don't proxy entire responses to third-parties without validation. 

{/*Any changelog to notify user if API endpoint/responses changes?*/}

Endpoint versions follow the base URL and come before the endpoint. For example:

```json 
https://api.daytona.domain.com/v3/clusters
```

## Types 
The following is a list of the types of data used within Daytona API: 

| Name | Description | Example |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| ID | A unique identifier for an object. See team ID or account ID on Daytona dashboard. | `123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000` |
| `string` | A sequence of characters used to represent text. | `value` |
| `number` | A whole number without decimal. | `1` |
| `object` | A data structure with a list of values assigned to a unique key. | `{ "key": "value" }` |
| `array` | A list of values. | `[ "value1", "value2" ]` |
| `boolean` | A value that is either `true` or `false`. | `true` |
| `enum` | A value that is one of a predefined set of values. | [ 'value1', 'value2'] |
| Timestamp | A value that represents a point in time. | `2021-01-01T00:00:00Z` |


{/* {/* | `null` | A value that is `null`. | `null` |/*} */}


## API endpoints
Daytona's API endpoints are separated into groups based on the type of action they perform. 

| Group | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Cluster](#cluster) | Cluster related actions, such as retrieving information, creating and deleting clusters. |
| [User](#user) | User related actions, such as retrieving and deleting a user, creating, updating and retrieving new environment variables, ssh-keys, ide, dotfiles and git-related information. |
| [Workspace](#workspace) | Manage workspace related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing workspaces. |
| [WorkspaceInstance](#workspace-instance) | Retrieving and updating a specifc workspace. |
| [Team](#team) | Team related actions, such as creating new invitation, updating and retrieving and team related information, managing subscriptions and users within a team.  |
| [Plan](#plan) | Subscription plan related actions, such as creating, retrieving, deleting, and managing subscription plans. |
| [WorkspaceUsage](#workspace-usage) | Retrieving workspace usage related information. |
| [WorkspaceSSH](#workspace-ssh) | Retrieving and updating SSH key related information within a workspace. |
| [Superviser](#superviser) | Superviser related actions, such as creating, deleting, and managing git credentials, deployment status, user configuration, found errors, user's environment variables, cluster and workspaces. Endpoints related to supervisor have highest priviledge in all actions. |

### API request example 

## API Endpoints reference

#### Cluster

<ApiContent routeGroup="cluster"/>


#### User

<ApiContent routeGroup="user"/>

#### Workspace
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace"/>

#### Workspace Instance
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace-instance"/>
#### Team
<ApiContent routeGroup="team"/>

#### Plan
<ApiContent routeGroup="plan"/>

#### Workspace Usage
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace-usage"/>

### Workspace SSH
<ApiContent routeGroup="workspace-ssh"/>

### Supervisor

<ApiContent routeGroup="supervisor"/>

## Schema Reference

<SchemaCard/>
